[Music]
our good ol solar system is actually a
pretty bizarre place well with all its
out-of-this-world phenomena that we
humans haven't managed to explain yet
there are rumors that a gigantic
undiscovered planet is hiding behind
Neptune volcanoes on Pluto spew ice and
a colossal Canyon on Mars can
accommodate the whole US territory and
most of Cleveland well let's figure out
if it's true by talking about the most
mystifying solar system facts the solar
system is 4.6 billion years old so old
it's a senior solar system scientists
came to this conclusion after they
studied the oldest material they managed
to get ahold of and by that I mean
meteorites of course you won't be able
to wear a hat on Venus ever and just try
to stand on your feet the planet is
insanely windy it's upper winds blow 50
times faster than the planet rotates
what's more these fierce winds never
stop and can get even stronger with time
want to get away you'll have to travel
11 billion miles away from Earth before
ever leaving the solar system take your
Google Maps with you
you probably heard of methane gas a
byproduct of natural processes such as
volcanic activity and cows anyway
this gas is not only a part of the
Martian atmosphere but also the thing
that confuses astronomers to no end
the thing is that the volume of methane
on Mars keeps wavering and scientists
just can't figure out where it might be
coming from
can there be cows on Mars as you may
remember Pluto used to be a planet but
was stripped of this title in 2006 later
it was reclassified as a dwarf planet
she make up your mind but the most
unexpected fact about this celestial
body is that its diameter is smaller
than that of the u.s. see for yourself
the greatest distance across the country
from Maine to Northern California is
about 2,800 miles as for
Pluto it's only 1473 miles across in
fact if you laid Pluto right down in the
middle of the United States you'd crush
the heck out of Iowa Kansas and Nebraska
bad idea the planet Uranus or Uranus you
can't win either way
rotates on its side and astronomers have
no idea why the planet has chosen such
an unusual position the culprits could
be ancient mega powerful collisions but
so far it's just a theory by the way
this is the only planet laying on its
side
our Sun is insanely massive want some
proof well ninety nine point eight six
percent of all the mass in the solar
system is in the mass of the Sun in
particular the hydrogen and helium it's
made of the remaining 0.14% is mostly
the mass of the solar systems eight
planets Earth might not be the only
tectonic Li active planet in the solar
system
astronomers have spotted some landforms
looking like cliffs on Mercury if it's
so the tectonic activity could explain
the rapid shrinking of the planet in
most sci-fi movies about space the main
character gets into an asteroid belt and
must dodge countless rocks that threaten
to damage their spacecraft well sorry to
disappoint but that's nothing like the
real thing
the only asteroid belt astronomers know
about is located between Mars and
Jupiter there are thousands of asteroids
in this region but they're so widely
spaced that the chance of collision is
next to nothing ah you just ruined it
sorry behind the orbit of Neptune lies
the mysterious Kuiper belt filled with
massive icy objects the most curious
thing about this space formation though
is that scientists can explain the
pattern of its movement the only
explanation they have is that Neptune
might be hiding a ginormous planet from
our sight this hypothetical planet has
already got the name
nine and all we have to do is wait until
this existence is confirmed or not
volcanoes on earth are as different from
those on butoh as fire and ice and I
mean it well we have volcanoes spilling
lava on our planet the volcanoes on
Pluto spit ice when frozen water expands
and this enormous pressure builds up
until one day bang the ice erupts in the
process a new cryovolcano gets formed
one of Saturn's moons Lapidus
has a unique color it's two-tone one of
its hemispheres is light and the other
is eerily dark scientists haven't
figured out this mystery yet there's
another weird thing about Pluto or
rather about its atmosphere first it
rises way higher above the surface of
the dwarf planet then for example the
Earth's atmosphere
what's more the atmosphere on pluto has
more than 20 layers and all of them are
super cold and very condensed we live
inside the Sun no I don't mean that
we're inhabitants of the red hot ball of
light approximately 93 million miles
away the thing is that the sun's
atmosphere stretches far beyond its
visible surface and our planet is right
within its reach in fact it's the gusts
of solar wind that create the
breathtaking phenomenon known as the
northern and southern lights the ocean
on Jupiter is larger than any other on
the rest of the solar system's planets
but wait it's not the type of ocean
you're thinking about the one on Jupiter
isn't made of water this mesmerizing
thing consists of metallic hydrogen and
its depth is a staggering 25,000 miles
which is almost the same as the
circumference of the earth the sun's
atmosphere is hotter than the surface of
the star well on the surface the
temperature reaches 10,000 degrees
Fahrenheit the upper atmosphere heats up
to millions of degrees scientists
suspect that explosive bursts of heat
from the Sun
have something to do with this unique
phenomenon people came to know about
Saturn's beautiful rings in the 1600s
but only recently it became apparent
that Saturn isn't the only ringed planet
all the gas giant planets Uranus Neptune
and Jupiter have rings of their own but
they're thin and almost impossible to
see as for Mars Venus and Earth
they're made of rocky materials and have
no rings whatsoever our solar system
isn't the only one in the Milky Way
galaxy far from it the galaxy we live in
houses about 100 billion solar systems
and if that's just our galaxy alone can
you imagine how many there are in the
whole universe at any given moment here
on earth you can stumble across a rock
that's arrived from Mars after
scientists analyzed the chemical content
of some meteorites found in the Sahara
Desert
Antarctica and other places on our
planet they came to the shocking
conclusion that they have a Martian
origin since mercury is the closest
planet to the Sun many people simply
assume that it's also the hottest and
that's where they get it wrong because
in fact Venus which is about 30 million
miles further from the Sun than mercury
is way hotter the thing is that Venus
has an incredibly thick atmosphere which
is 100 times denser than the one we have
on earth on top of that this atmosphere
consists almost entirely of carbon
dioxide also known as a greenhouse gas
these factors make the temperatures on
the planet rise to a staggering 875
degrees Fahrenheit which is hot enough
to not let as a mercury it's maximum
temperatures reach only 800 degrees
Jupiter's moon low exists in neverending
chaos due to hundreds of smoking
volcanoes on its surface if you ever
visit this place send me a postcard now
you'll see the smoke from these
volcanoes billowing up high into lows
atmosphere the most enormous volcano in
the whole solar system at least that we
know of is on Mars
the size of this monster is almost as
great as the state of Arizona and its
height is as big as that of Mount
Everest how did it grow this huge the
answer is simple there's much less
gravity on Mars in comparison with our
planet even if you're a tiny celestial
body you can still have a moon of your
own hey it's not that hard
in 1993 the Galileo probe was traveling
past a miniature asteroid that was no
bigger than 20 miles across and
discovered the little thing had a one
mile wide moon since then astronomers
have found tons of moons orbiting minor
planets in our solar system the valley
called Valles Marineris on Mars is more
than ten times larger than Earth's Grand
Canyon and it's another thing that
puzzles astronomers after all Mars isn't
a planet with active plate tectonics on
the surface of Jupiter there's a weird
region that's called the great red spot
recently astronomers have concluded that
this spot is actually a storm that's
been raging on the planet for centuries
but some 20 years ago scientists noticed
that the red regions started to shrink
nowadays it's just half the size it used
to be and still the spot is one and a
half times bigger than Earth how about
you do you know any other unusual facts
about our solar system that I've missed
then let me know down in the comments if
you learned something new today then
give this video a like and share it with
a friend but hey don't go space
traveling just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life